# Two Sum || Easy

## Problem:

Given an array of integers `nums` and an integer `target`, return indices of the two numbers such that they add up to `target`.

You may assume that each input would have **exactly one solution**, and you may not use the same element twice.

You can return the answer in any order.

## Example 1:
```
Input: nums = [2,7,11,15], target = 9
Output: [0,1]
Explanation: Because nums[0] + nums[1] == 9, we return [0, 1].
```

## Example 2:
```
Input: nums = [3,2,4], target = 6
Output: [1,2]
```

## Example 3: 
```
Input: nums = [3,3], target = 6
Output: [0,1]
```

## Constraints:

- `2 <= nums.length <= 10⁴`
- `-10⁹ <= nums[i] <= 10⁹`
- `-10⁹ <= target <= 10⁹`
- **Only one valid answer exists.**

## Solution:
[Full Code](https://github.com/Nox-iv/LeetCode-Solutions/blob/main/code/1_two_sum.js)

The first and probably most basic solution that came to mind for this issue is a nested for loop. This would loop through the nums array,
then for each element it would compare it with all other elements in the array excluding itself. While this solution would work it would create
a solution with a quadratic Big O. To solve the dual loop issue I changed to using a map of compliments. 

To start I check if the current array element is in the map, if so we have found the compliment and we return the indexes of the two numbers.
If not then we calculate the number needed to get the current array element to the target number, we then store this number (the compliment)
and the array index it goes with. Then we continue to the next array element.

```js
var twoSum = function(nums, target) {
    var complimentMap = new Map();
    var currentNum;

    //Creating a map of the compliment and the index
    for(var i = 0;i<nums.length;i++){
        currentNum = nums[i];
        var cIndx = complimentMap.get(currentNum);
        if(cIndx!=undefined){
            //If the compliment is found, return the index of its pair
            return([i, cIndx])
        } else {
            complimentMap.set(target-currentNum,i);
        }
    }
}
```

## Follow-up: 
Can you come up with an algorithm that is less than `O(n²)` time complexity?

As previously mentioned my first thoughts on solving this produced an algorithm with a `O(n²)` complexity, however the current algorithm
using the map creates a complexity of `O(n)`.
